ID: 303
Nom: Bradford Martini
Source: https://www.diffordsguide.com/cocktails/recipe/303/bradford-martini
Image: https://cdn.diffordsguide.com/cocktail/NAmpvR/default/0/512x.webp?v=1737701572

Ingrédients:
- 75 ml
- Hayman's London Dry Gin
- 7.5 ml
- Strucchi Dry Vermouth
- 1 dash
- Orange Bitters by Angostura
- optional
Recette / Préparation:


Profil (force/goût):
Score force (0-10): 9.0
Score douceur/acidité (0-10): 9.0
Note expert (1-5): 5.0
Note membres (1-5): 4.0

Avis:
Review: I do like a shaken Dry Martini! Sorry, I should say Bradford. For some a "shaken martini" is blasphemous but the aeration generated by the more vigorous mixing makes the cocktail lighter, colder, and on occasion, more appealing. There's something about shaking a martini (Bradford) that amplifies the vermouth notes more than when stirring. Hence, shaken martinis (Bradfords) need less vermouth. After experimentation, I've found that a 10:1 gin to vermouth ratio (as above) is perfect (while I prefer a 5:1 ratio for a stirred Martini ).

Histoire:
A Bradford is a Dry Martini which is shaken rather than stirred.Like the Martini itself, the origin of the Bradford is lost in time.Cependant, dans l'édition 1900 de Harry Johnson de son Bartender's Manual, il inclut deux recettes de Martini - l'une simplement intitulée "Martini Cocktail" et l'autre "Bradford à la Martini" - le Martini est agité pendant que le Bradford est secoué.This difference is reinforced by David Embury in his 1948 The Fine Art of Mixing Drinks , " If you shake the Martini it becomes a BRADFORD ."En commun avec sa recette de Martini, la recette Bradford à la Martini de Harry Johnson de 1900 demande des parts égales de « Tom gin » et de « vermouth » secoué avec « 3 ou 4 traits d'orange bitter » et « le zeste d'un citron ».He specifies to garnish with " a medium-sized olive ."
BRADFORD À LA MARTINI.(Use a large bar glass.) ¾ glass of fine-shaved ice;3 0 ou 4 traits d'orange bitter ;Le zeste d'un citron dans un verre à mélange ;½ verre de vin de gin Tom ;½ verre de vin de vermouth ;Shake well with a shaker, strain into a cocktail glass, put a medium-sized olive into it and serve.Harry Johnson, 1900

Nutrition:
One serving of Bradford Martini contains 174 calories

Teneur en alcool:
1.7 standard drinks 28.71% alc./vol. (57.43° proof) 23.8 grams of pure alcohol
Difford’s Guide remains free-to-use thanks to the support of the brands in green above . Values stated for alcohol and calorie content, and number of drinks an ingredient makes should be considered approximate.