ID: 725
Nom: Espresso Martini
Source: https://www.diffordsguide.com/cocktails/recipe/725/espresso-martini
Image: https://cdn.diffordsguide.com/cocktail/LRZqYO/default/0/512x.webp?v=1762165086

Ingrédients:
- 45 ml
- Ketel One Vodka
- 30 ml
- Exprè Caffè Italiano (or freshly made hot Espresso Coffee)
- 20 ml
- De Kuyper Crème de Cafe
- 2 drop
- Saline solution (20g sea salt to 80g water) or merest pinch of s
- optional
Recette / Préparation:


Profil (force/goût):
Score force (0-10): 7.0
Score douceur/acidité (0-10): 6.0
Note expert (1-5): 5.0
Note membres (1-5): 4.5

Avis:
Bilan : Comparé à une Vodka & Red Bull pour les plus exigeants, ce cocktail chargé en caféine comprend de généreuses gorgées de vodka, d'espresso et de liqueur de café.Bien que loin d'être un véritable Martini, l'Espresso Martini est peut-être le plus connu des cocktails classiques contemporains issus des années 1990.Comme tout cocktail, un Espresso Martini est aussi bon que ses ingrédients.Il vous faudra donc une bonne vodka et un café expresso fraîchement préparé (ou une excellente alternative UHT).La crème de l'espresso (mousse crémeuse) est la clé du succès et de l'apparence du cocktail fini.Il peut sembler pervers de verser une dose de café expresso fumant dans un shaker, puis de le secouer immédiatement avec de la glace, plutôt que d'utiliser du café froid/glacé, mais laissez le café refroidir pour que la crème meure et vous tuerez le cocktail.Comme pour un café expresso, la quantité de sucre nécessaire pour équilibrer ce cocktail dépend en grande partie des goûts de chaque buveur, mais la recette originale de Dick Bradsell incluait du sirop de sucre.J'ai omis le sucre de la recette ci-dessus, mais en fonction de votre liqueur de café, vous souhaiterez peut-être ajouter 2,5 ml (une demi-cuillère de bar) ou même 5 ml (1/6 oz) de sirop de sucre riche (2:1).Idéalement, utilisez un sirop brun, muscovado ou demerara ou même du miel pour ajouter une dimension supplémentaire.Et si vous utilisez une liqueur de café très sèche/amère, l'ajout de douceur devient plus nécessaire que facultatif.Ma recette réduite de petites coupettes comprend du sirop de sucre : 40 ml (1⅓ oz) de Vodka 25 ml (5/6 oz) de café expresso 15 ml (½ oz) de liqueur de café 3,75 ml (1/8 oz) de sirop de sucre 2 gouttes de solution saline En plus de garnir d'un trio de grains de café, j'aime aussi exprimer un zeste de citron sur la surface de la boisson, puis jeter le zeste.Les huiles de citron n'affectent pas négativement la mousse, mais l'arôme citronné ajoute considérablement au cocktail.

Histoire:
The cocktail we know today as the Espresso Martini started life as the far more fittingly titled Vodka Espresso , served on-the-rocks. Created circa 1983 by the legendary bartender Dick Bradsell at the Soho Brasserie on Old Compton Street, London, for a customer, said to be a " top model ," or at least an American model who asked for " Something that's gonna wake me up, then fuck me up. " When asked as to exactly why he settled on that drink that day, Dick told me: " The coffee machine at the Soho Brasserie was right next to the station where I served drinks. It was a nightmare, as coffee grounds were everywhere, so coffee was very much on my mind. And it was all about vodka back then - it was all people were drinking. " There's been much speculation over the decades as to the identity of the sleep-deprived "model" whose order to alleviate the affliction led to Dick making the first Vodka Espresso. Some say it was Kate Moss, others Naomi Campbell, but Moss was only nine at the time and Campbell was 13 years old and not American! Dick followed traditional bartending convention, believing that folk should be able to go into a bar, relax, have a good time, drink a bit too much, and, ideally, tip well. And importantly, what they did or said in that bar should stay there. He kept his guests' secrets. The probable truth is, the model in question was far from being a "supermodel." That said, Marie Helvin, as rumoured locally, is a more likely contender. As the eighties turned into the nineties, people were still drinking vodka but this was the decade of the Neo Martini - any cocktail served in a V-shaped glass and based on vodka was considered a "Martini", and such Neo-Martinis were what bar-goers wanted and ordered. Hence, in 1997, when Dick was working at Match bar on London's Clerkenwell Road, a fellow bartender named Vasco (who Dick referred to as the "Portuguese sea captain") served Dick's Vodka Espresso straight-up in a Martini glass. As Dick said, " it needed adjustment. I used the ratio behind the Brandy Alexander as a template (espresso to vodka with 3 flavours in between). "
Espresso Martini/Pharmaceutical Stimulant Into empty shaker glass 50mls good vodka 5mls cane sugar syrup 5mls Tia Maria 10mls Kahlua 25mls double strength espresso (and the better the coffee the better the drink!) Add ice, shake, strain into prechilled glass. 3 coffee beans as garnish And if you can see through it or it is brown, not black, it's wrong. Dick Bradsell, 2010s
Finally, to complete his trilogy of coffee cocktails, in 1998, Dick renamed his creation Pharmaceutical Stimulant to fit a list of cocktail names provided by Damien Hirst for the menu at his new Pharmacy restaurant in Notting Hill, where Damien Hirst's artwork hung, and Dick was bar manager (the site on Notting Hill Gate is now a Waitrose store).

Nutrition:
One serving of Espresso Martini contains 169 calories

Teneur en alcool:
1.6 standard drinks 17.02% alc./vol. (34.04° proof) 16.2 grams of pure alcohol
Difford’s Guide remains free-to-use thanks to the support of the brands in green above . Values stated for alcohol and calorie content, and number of drinks an ingredient makes should be considered approximate.